Web Application:

    Burp Suite262 - An integrated platform for performing security testing of web applications

    Sqlmap110 - An open source penetration testing tool that automates the process of detecting and exploiting SQL injection flaws and taking over of database servers. How-to Tutorial90

    SQLNinja86 - Sqlninja is a tool targeted to exploit SQL Injection vulnerabilities on a web application that uses Microsoft SQL Server as its back-end. How-to Tutorial54

    Hackbar137- This Firefox toolbar will help you in testing sql injections, XSS holes and site security. How-to Tutorial140

    Knock190 - Enumerates subdomains on a target domain through a wordlist. How-to Tutorial81

    The Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP) By OWASP66

    Ratproxy By Google165 - How-to Tutorial64

    OWASP SKANDA – SSRF Exploitation Framework233

    man ascii64 - on most unices gives you the ASCII table with decimal, octal and hex codes for each character (thanks @justinsteven)

    DNS Discovery165 - A multithreaded subdomain bruteforcer. (thanks @Nahamsec)

    IronWASP99 - free & open source security scanner (thanks @cmaruti)

    WebSlayer290 - "One of the best free tools available" - (thanks @mazen160 )

    Wfuzz95 - (Thanks @mazen160)

    SubBrute91 - subdomain bruteforcer (Thanks @geekspeed)

    The SecList Project69 - collection of multiple lists using during security assessments (Thanks @geekspeed)

    NCrack20 & Hydra17/Medusa11 - password bruteforcing (Thanks @jhaddix)

    XXE Recursive Download135 - This tool exploits XXE to retrieve files from a target server. It obtains directory listings and recursively downloads file contents (Thanks @Nahamsec)

    SQLiPY52 - SQLiPy is a Python plugin for Burp Suite that integrates SQLMap using the SQLMap API. Guide for this tool50. (Thanks @jhaddix)

    Scans.io169 - use the latest scans.io data to find additional hosts that may be in scope for those *.target.com targets (Thanks @jstnkndy)

    httpscreenshot98 - Fantastic tool built by @jstnkndy and breenmachine. Quickly visually identify targets on internal or external targets. (thanks @jstnkndy)

Mobile:

    Dex2jar5 - Useful to convert dex files into jar to decompile the application. How-to tutorial9

    Appium49 - Appium is an open-source tool for automating native, mobile web, and hybrid applications on iOS and Android platforms. How-to Tutorial

    iNalyzer54 - iOS Penetration testing framework

    Apktool29 - reverse engineering Android apk files (Thanks @planetzuda)

    NinjaDroid42 - Ninja Reverse Engineering on Android APK packages (Thanks @geekspeed)

Other:

    MITMproxy30 - How-to tutorial31
    Mona.py44 - for Windows Exploiting 
    metasm_shell.rb & nasm_shell.rb - Both found in the tools folder in Metasploit4 
    GoBuster61 - dirbusting software for directory bruteforcing 
    R Project for Statistical Computing4 - statistical computing and graphics, runs on UNIX, Win and MacOS. Check out the dds.ec package 
    Apache Spark5 - large-scale data processing for statistical analysis and better visuals, for bigger data sets that R can't handle
    PhantomJS12 - headless WebKit scriptable with the javascript API 
    Hackvertor30
    JSBeautifier27


